# “The Draft”

## Overview

## Class 5

<!-- - *MZ*: Before class, create a public repo with the presentation. -->
<!-- - *MZ*: Prepare to be able to explain how to get a FredAPI key. -->

[Zoom recording. Requires JHU login.](https://livejohnshopkins-my.sharepoint.com/personal/mzahn2_jh_edu/_layouts/15/stream.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fmzahn2%5Fjh%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2FFall%202023%20AS%2E160%2E369%20Class%20Recordings%2F2023%2E10%2E02%20Class%205%2Emp4&nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&ga=1)

**Agenda**
- *TA* Discuss best practices for the visual communication of quantitative information.
    - How to create Pull Request with our improvements.
- *TA* Get and use your own FredAPI Key!

**Homework**


## Class 6 — Making Progress

[Zoom recording. Requires JHU login.](https://livejohnshopkins-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/mzahn2_jh_edu/EQdZHFe5L8pJu5vCz0mMYIYBtB5NVxPLGpiDp8IxA43Nsg?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=uE33s1)

### Agenda
- *Grad TA* Coping with `git` and https://github.com (30 min.)
    - Getting your bearing at the command line
    - Getting your bearing with `git`
    - Debugging common issues with `git` and [github](https://github.com)
    - `git` cheatsheet

- *Grad TA* Coping with Jupyter Notebooks (30 min.)
    - Missing packages and environments
        - What are `pip install` and `conda install`?
        - How to recognize when packages are missing?
        - How to find and document missing packages?

### Homework
- Complete NASA course and quiz so you get certificate
- Continue working on the Literature Review and Abstract for final papers.
- Make a start on the introduction

**Helpful notes**
- Abstract:
    - Results you hope to get. Write as if you got the results you wanted that align with your hypothesis.
    - Note why people should care about your findings.
    - Tight: Less than 200 words.
- Introduction:
    - Longer than Abstract.
    - Position the paper in terms of our current understanding/debates on the subject.
    - Motivate why you are studying this topic and why it is important. Big pictire, what is the point of your paper.
    - Aim for about a page or a page and a half (~500 to 750 words).
    - Focus on writing well. The content is less important than the process and demonstration of using the tools to improve the content you generate.


## Class 7

[Zoom recording. Requires JHU login.](https://livejohnshopkins-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/mzahn2_jh_edu/EZZescblGOBEpvWgNGqhJ6YB3dSjrDGW49exKc_EnpGmSw?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=6m0VKz)

### Agenda
- Show us your new Introduction & **improved** Abstract!
    - Share you experience in crafting Chat GPT prompts to give you feedback.
    - What advice did you accept? What advice did you reject?

- Discuss next steps for your paper.
    - Literature you plan to use (show latest Litmaps/paperpile).
    - What is the question that you will address with data?
    - What kind of data exist that you can use to answer your question?
 
- *Grad TA* Demonstration of citation tools.
    - Bibtex files generated by Paperpile.
    - Syntax for citing a paper using its Bibtex cite key.

- *Grad TA* Working with Data in your Jupyter Notebook
    - What is tabular data? What is a pandas DataFrame?
    - How do I select columns from a DataFrame, how do I filter rows?
    - How do I perform aggregations/compute summary statistics?
    - How do I perform econometrics?
    - How do I create a new `pandas` DataFrame from some other data source?
        - How read a `.csv`, how to read an excel file (`.xls`, `.xlsx`)

**Homework**
- Read the [Korinek](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jel.20231736) paper
    - Add it to your paperpile
    - Prepare to identify the tools/ideas you would consider using from the Korinek paper.
    - In the next class, you will write a paragraph on the above.
- Obtain and explore some data that are relevant to your topic.
    - Conduct an exploration/preliminary analysis of your obtained data set(s).
- Be prepared to present to the class on your preliminary analysis of the data.
- Make sure you are working on your Jupterhub
    - and are `git add`ing and `git commit`ing   your work regularly.
    - **Spread out commit messages over at least three days.**
- Prepare for 10 minute discussion where you are in the next class.
- **Once you're finished this, make sure to push all your work from your Sciserver into your Github Repo**
  - Once you try this, if you find you're having difficulty with this, ask AI. If you're still struggling, reach out to Ethan or Adrian.

## Class 8

### Agenda
- HW Review
  
- Write a paragraph on the tools/ideas you would consider using from the Korinek paper.

  <!-- [myst](https://mystmd.org) to create a webpage with bibliography.-->
- Writing your jupyterbook with multiple markdowns
- 
```sh
# copy jupyterbook folder contrib/cam/jupyterbook to your own contrib folder
# navigate to the new copy of /jupyterbook your contrib folder

# start terminal session in the folder of your notebook
# alternatively, use `cd` to navigate to your notebook folder

build-jb .

# open '_build/html'
```
  
**Homework**
- Improve your Korinek reflection: make it >300 words, and commit improvements over 3 separate days.
  - Use AI to improve your piece!
- Revise and improve your Literature Review
  - utilize ChatGPT/Claude and commit improvements over 3 days
- Begin your data empirical work (regressions, etc.)
  - Write the first draft of your methodology section in conjunction with your regressions, etc. 
- The above 2 sections of your paper should be in *separate* markdown files.
    - For a reference, use [Alan Lujan's REMARK](https://github.com/alanlujan91/SequentialEGM/blob/main/content/public/SequentialEGMn.pdf).

## Class 9

### Agenda

- HW Review: prompts people found useful for the Korinek reflection and lit review improvements (10 minutes)

- Instructional on best practices aiding your literature search (20 minutes)
  - Beyond Litmaps & Paperpile

- Updates on your paper progress (80 minutes)
  - roadblocks and problems you've encountered
  - methodology and lit review section updates

    
- *TA* Git refresher and Cleanup

- Debugging empirical work + How to use AI to help

**Homework**
- Please email your NASA certificate to emurins1@jh.edu
- Write the first draft of the results section. ([Here's](https://twp.duke.edu/sites/twp.duke.edu/files/file-attachments/econ.original.pdf) a great resource from Duke on writing this and other sections.)
    - You should break your text into a number of smaller markdown cells.
        - This makes it easier to use ChatGPT for editing.
    - Be sure to get ChatGPT feedback on your writing.
    - In the commits you write, please include the prompts you used in ChatGPT.

## Class 10


### Agenda
- Discuss your results section (10 minutes ea).
- Go over Beyond The Streetlight presentation to learn how to make presentations in HTML
  - Demonstrate jupyter-nbconvert to export jupyter rise slides using [Beyond the Streetlight](https://github.com/llorracc/beyond-the-streetlight)
  - ```pip install RISE jupyterlab-rise ```
  -  restart container (stop the container and restart!)
  -  important tools:
      - on top right corner click on the presentation symbol [Render the current notebook as Reveal Slideshow (Alt + R)] 
      - on the RHS of jupyter-lab go to **property inspector (two screws)** --> **common tools**
- Working with myst:
  - Create new econ-ark container
  - Restructure your paper as in contrib/AMonninger/Paper_Restructured
  - On Sciserver we can now use `myst`. Although the usual `myst start` does not work. Instead do the following
    ```
    pip install mystmd

    myst init

    myst-start
    ```
  - Open the given link (might take a few minutes)
 

**Homework**
- Create a conclusion section
- Break down your paper in multiple (at least 2) parts.
- Make a draft of the presentation of your paper.


