## Paper Replication
My final paper can be found in the folder "zoemchan_final_paper" (if you are looking at this file you are likely already in this folder). From here you can pull up the HTML and PDF versions of my paper. However, this folder is only for the final polished versions of my paper sections. 
- therefore the data/code CANNOT be replicated in here
- this folder only contains the images of graphs needed to be added to the paper

For generating the pdf version of my paper you have to use "myst build --pdf". It will not build just from "myst start" or "myst build" and I could not figure out how to fix that. There will be a bunch of errors but the pdf is fine.


## Data Replication
All the code for visuals and regressions can be found under the file path zoemchan-prelim-paper -> paper -> data. Note that the folder "zoemchan-prelim-paper" is inside of "zoemchan_final_paper". This folder contains both my data sources and all CSVs that were generated by my code. All datasets needed to run the code are in this folder. The code is split up between "Regressions & Final Graphics.ipynb" and "Data.ipynb".
- Data.ipynb - original data file. has all of the code to generate the CSVs.
  - the only visual used from here is the % bar chart for the entire nation
- Regressions & Final Graphics.ipynb - contains all other final regressions and visuals that were used in the paper. This pulls from CSVs that were generated by Data.ipynb.
  - organized into national, LA, chicago, detroit, philly, city summary data
  - you should not have to generate any of the CSV files needed to run code here as they should all be in the data folder

NOTE: The folder "paper" contains md files with all sections of the paper. They are similar to the sections under "zoemchan_final_paper".